# Section 2

## Lecture 5

### What is Truthy and Falsy in python? How is it different from True and False?

This condition is kind of weird the name variable is set to whatever the user is typed in but input
will be returning a string value not a boolean true or false value.
The reason this code works is that the conditions can use truthy and false values for strings.
The blank string is a falsie value condition evaluates to the blank string.
It's considered to be the same as the false Boolean values.
All the other non-blank string values are truthy values.

For instance, to see if a list is not empty, instead of checking like this:

if len(my_list) != 0:
   print "Not empty!"
You can simply do this:

if my_list:
   print "Not empty!"
This is because some values, such as empty lists, are considered False when evaluated for a boolean value. Non-empty lists are True.

Similarly for the integer 0, the empty string "", and so on, for False, and non-zero integers, non-empty strings, and so on, for True.

The idea of terms like "truthy" and "falsy" simply refer to those values which are considered True in cases like those described above, and those which are considered False.

For example, an empty list ([]) is considered "falsy", and a non-empty list (for example, [1]) is considered "truthy".


### To recap 
an if statement can be used to conditionally execute code depending on whether or not the if statements condition is true or false.

In l if that is an else if statement can follow an if statement in its block executes if the condition is true and all the previous conditions have been false in.

Else statement comes at the end.

Its block is executed if all the previous conditions have been false.

And finally the values zero zero point zero and the empty string are considered to be false values when used in conditions they are considered to be the same as the false Boolean values.
You can always see which for yourself which values are truth your falsie by passing them to the bool function

 
## Lecture 6

### To recap 
while statements are similar to if statements except that once the execution reaches the end

of a while statements block it jumps back to the start and rechecks condition.

If you ever get stuck in a loop where you just want to quickly terminate your python program you can

just press ctrl + C .

See a break statement will cause the execution to immediately leave the loop without rechecking the

condition and a continue statement will cause the execution to immediately jump back to the start of

a loop and recheck the condition.


## Lecture 7


### What is Python's range() Function?
As an experienced Python developer, or even a beginner, you've likely heard of the Python range() function. But what does it do? In a nutshell, it generates a list of numbers, which is generally used to iterate over with for loops. There's many use cases. Often you will want to use this when you want to perform an action X number of times, where you may or may not care about the index. Other times you may want to iterate over a list (or another iterable object), while being able to have the index available.
The range() function works a little bit differently between Python 2.x and 3.x under the hood, however the concept is the same. We'll get to that a bit later, however.

Python's range() Parameters
The range() function has two sets of parameters, as follows:

range(stop)

stop: Number of integers (whole numbers) to generate, starting from zero. eg. range(3) == [0, 1, 2].
range([start], stop[, step])

start: Starting number of the sequence.
stop: Generate numbers up to, but not including this number.
step: Difference between each number in the sequence.
Note that:

All parameters must be integers.
All parameters can be positive or negative.
range() (and Python in general) is 0-index based, meaning list indexes start at 0, not 1. eg. The syntax to access the first element of a list is mylist[0]. Therefore the last integer generated by range() is up to, but not including, stop. For example range(0, 5) generates integers from 0 up to, but not including, 5.

## Lecture 8

### paperclip module 
So to recap you can run an import statement like import random to import modules and get access to new

functions modules that come with Python are called the standard library but you can also install third

party modules as well using the Pipp tool.

The system exit function will immediately quit your program and the paperclip third party module has

copy and paste functions for reading and writing text to the clipboard.

## Lecture 9

### Keyword Arguments | None Value

To recap functions are like a mini program inside your program.

The main point of functions is to get rid of duplicate code of the def statement defines a function.

The input to functions are arguments.

The output is the return value.

The parameters are variables in between the function's parentheses and the def statement.

The arguments are assigned to these parameters.

The return value specified using the return statement every function has a return value.

If your function doesn't have a return statement the default return value is the nun value and keyword arguments to functions are usually for optional arguments.

The print function has cured arguments end and Sep

#### None Value
None is just a value that commonly is used to signify 'empty', or 'no value here'. It is a signal object; it only has meaning because the Python documentation says it has that meaning.

There is only one copy of that object in a given Python interpreter session.

If you write a function, and that function doesn't use an explicit return statement, None is returned instead, for example. That way, programming with functions is much simplified; a function always returns something, even if it is only that one None object.

# Section 6

## Lecture 13

to recap a list is a value that contains multiple values the values in the list are also called items.

You can access items in a list with its integer index.

Remember the first index is zero not one.

You can also use negative indexes negative 1 refers to the last item negative 2 refers to the second
to last item and so on.

You can get multiple items from the list using a slice.

The new list items start at the first index and go up to but don't include the second index the len
function concatenation and replication work the same way with with that and the way that they do with
strings.

And you can convert a value into a list by passing it to the list function
